# Islandora IR Interest Group: Meeting 01

## August 6, 2015, 12:00-1:00 PM ADT (Islandora Conference lunch meeting)

## Agenda

1. Introductions: Who are you and why did you join this group?
2. [Terms of Reference](https://github.com/Islandora/Islandora-IR-Interest-Group/blob/main/README.md): Suggestions/comments?
3. [Desired Features](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/islandora-ir/UTogQUxDeOQ): What would you like to see implemented?
4. Scoping: What should/can this IG tackle? 
5. Next steps

## Notes
* Roundtable introductions, everyone explained who they are, where they work and what they'd like to see from the group.
* Decision was made that we should put off any major decisions about the group until there had been more warning, save them for 1st true Skype meeting.
* Discussion of newly created official channels for communication/work, such as the official [IIRIG GitHub repo](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-IR-Interest-Group), the [IIRIG Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/islandora-ir), and the [IIRIG Google Drive shared folder](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/islandora-ir).

