# Islandora IR Interest Group
## August 25, 2016, 3:00 - 4:00 PM EST ([Join Skype](https://join.skype.com/wswXMESUbCkk))

## Agenda
* Volunteer for Next Facilitator / Notetaker
* [1.8 release time!](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PRv2Xo-sNE_sDJHUT5OvTXmNiSHnkdJgwo7VsFkIUgY/edit?pref=2&pli=1#gid=211974923)
  * Component manager for Scholar & Usage Stats
  * Who wants to help test/write docs/audit?
* Discuss [tickets from last meeting](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-IR-Interest-Group/blob/main/meetings/2016-07-28.md#tickets)
  * Reports on tickets in the [IIRIG Google Drive folder](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1waeo9l2lJzUJj0vMULs6v2u6QXKvqBbEt5WgGMJZZ7Y/edit#heading=h.el50svmwghot)
    * [ISLANDORA-914](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-914): close or fix?
    * [ISLANDORA-1067](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1076): asking committers to close
    * [ISLANDORA-1582](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1582): we'll fix (help! esp. @bondjimbond)
    * [ISLANDORA-1014](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1014): proposes changes to other modules to be like Scholar
    * [ISLANDORA-1738](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1738): we'll fix (help!) but will be tough
    * [ISLANDORA-1052](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1052): asking committers to close
    * [ISLANDORA-1759](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1759): asking committers to close (@DonRichards)
* CLAW IR MVP
  * MVP = Minimum Viable Product
  * CLAW MVP = Smallest possible feature set for CLAW to launch v1.0 and be considered usable
  * CLAW IR MVP = Smallest possible feature set for CLAW IR to be usable
  * List your ideas [here](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-IR-Interest-Group/issues/31)
  * 

Attendees

* Bryan Brown (chair)
* Melissa Anez
* Emily Toner
* Wilhelmina Randtke
* Don Richards
* Donald Moses
* Gail Lewis
* Mark Baggett
* Keila Zayas-Ruiz
* Devin Sloper
* Joseph Nicholson

Notes

1.8. release: volunteers needed for testing.

* Emily and Devin offered to serve as co-testers for Islandora Scholar. Keila offered to test the usage module, while Mark     
  volunteered as a co-tester for the statistics module. Bryan will seek out volunteers on the Islandora list and elsewhere to assist him with testing the management module. 

Tickets from the previous meeting. Any new tickets need to be submitted by the code freeze on September 5, 2016.

   *	Islandora 914

      This bug has been fixed for citations but is still not working for theses. Since it seems improbable that the functionality involved (pid namespace) would ever apply to theses, the group voted to close the ticket.

   *	Islandora 1067

      Originally noticed by Emily Toner, this bug appears to have been fixed in the 7.5 release but still has an open status. Bryan will bring up the ticket during the next committer’s call to see if it can be closed.

   *	Islandora 1582 

      Though this ticket is not altogether clear, Bryan (to whom it has been assigned) believes that it describes an actual bug that requires fixing. He has asked for others to help out with a solution.

   * 	Islandora 1014

      This bug involves granting authenticated users more permissions on their own submitted objects. The group decided to remove the Islandora Scholar tag from the ticket, since the IS module is the only one that grants permission to users based on their status as owner.

   *	Islandora 1738

      Mark volunteered to take a look at the problem described on this ticket, which involves improper RDF predicates for embargoed RELS-EXT and RELS-INT datastreams.

   *	Islandora 1052

      Though this ticket was originally submitted as a bug, it actually represents a feature improvement request concerning unclear labels for metadata. Bryan will raise the issue at the next committer’s call to see if there are any new comments.

   *	Islandora 1759

      Don speculated that he should probably close this ticket involving the renaming of content models, as the implications of forging ahead with a solution may be too scary. The suggestion in the ticket will be handed off to CLAW, which will possibly address the issue before it becomes a release.

Claw IR MVP

Led by Danny Lamb, the new tech lead of the CLAW development group, the MVP (minimum viable product) is an effort to describe the basic foundational features that CLAW ought to have in order to be released as version 1.0. Instead of describing every possible feature that CLAW might ultimately include, CLAW MVP focuses on the minimum required for release. MVP ideas are being gathered on a GitHub page. 

Group members discussed various CLAW-related issues. Devin asked about problems	with triples in several current solution packs, which may affect migration to CLAW. Bryan speculated that the triples may be incorrect in a predictable and consistent manner; if so, he said, they could be easily mapped to correct predicates in CLAW. Responding to a question from Keila about user roles, Bryan said that CLAW developers are aware of how granular permissions need to be when defining functionalities. They are working on the assumption that more is better where roles are concerned. Emily and Bryan discussed the advisability of looking at work that has been done for Sophia, ScholarSphere, and various home-grown repositories, which may offer pointers for Islandora IR development.

Other Issues

•	Emily mentioned that folks at Simon Fraser are looking into creating a share/push API for Islandora IRs.
•	The metadata librarian at FSU is writing a document on how to query the OAI-PMH feed for Islandora. Grad students and faculty members have been asking about how to pull information from the IR in an automated way.
•	Keila asked former Bepress users how long it took to migrate their content to Islandora. Bryan reported that it took exactly a year. Everything was moved out of the Bepress repository, he said, but some material ended up in OJS and other systems.  
