# Islandora IR Interest Group
## December 22, 2016, 3:00 - 4:00 PM EST ([Join Skype](https://join.skype.com/qopMbhd7Ksxb))

## Agenda
* Don Richards as new IG co-convener
* Rotating chairs? :notes:
* Islandoracon 2017
  * Who's going
  * Who wants to co-teach a Scholar workshop?
* [JIRA Master Cleanse: IR Edition](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_fFciRdWcRzM_VDSg7GZRKsx54v2EnLXwu7MjWRMbvo/edit?usp=sharing)
* [ET-DMS datastream?](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1847)
* [Embargo requirements w/r/t PCDM discussion](https://github.com/duraspace/pcdm/issues/70)
* CLAW stuff!
  * 1.x CModels -> 2.x Entities
    * Different implementation, but same idea: object types that map to forms & displays
    * What CLAW entity types do we want to support in a CLAW IR MVP?
      * [COAR Resource Types](https://www.coar-repositories.org/activities/repository-interoperability/ig-controlled-vocabularies-for-repository-assets/coar-vocabularies/deliverables/) might be a good start
      * Attractive: Dataset, Book, Book part, Book review, thesis, Conference paper, Conference poster, Journal article
  * [RDF UI use cases](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/islandora/x2UaNrCElzo)

## Attendees
* Bryan Brown :chicken: :pencil:
* Melissa Anez
* Keila Zayas-Ruiz
* Don Moses

## Notes

### Meeting cancelled!
Only a few people showed up to the meeting, so the group agreed to cancel the meeting and have the agenda turn into an update email.

### Don Richards is the new co-convener of the IRIG
In addition to being a committer and co-maintainer of the Scholar module, Don Richards is now the co-convener of the IR Interest Group. Hooray Don! :tada: PS, if anyone else is interested in being a co-convener in addition to Don Richards & Bryan Brown, that would be awesome, too. 

### Rotating meeting chairs
The Islandora Committers meetings have a rotating chair (a pool of people volunteer to chair meetings, and each takes a turn before starting over). This would be good for this group as well to add more voices to the discussion and distrute the work of chairing meetings more equally. Let's take a vote, and also build up that pool of potential chairs!

### Help Wanted: Islandoracon 2017 Scholar workshop
There will be a group workshop on Scholar and using Islandora as an IR led by Bryan Brown. If you are planning to attend Islandoracon, you could help out with this if you like! Many hands make light work. :raised_hands: If you would like to give a quick (~5min) story about how you use Scholar at your organization, that would be great as well!

### Spring cleaning for JIRA tix
There are *a lot* of open tickets in JIRA for Islandora Scholar. Most of them require coding (which we also definitely need help with), but there are a few that require documentation that anyone can take. Even more of them are a bit ambiguous, and need a degree of clarification before we can act on them. You can find a spreadsheet of all the tickets we want to take care of in [this Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_fFciRdWcRzM_VDSg7GZRKsx54v2EnLXwu7MjWRMbvo/edit?usp=sharing), and take special note of the second sheet tab at the bottom explaining what the colors mean.

The light blue tickets in particular (they also have the Priority "?", if you want to sort with them) require a bit of discussion with the group regarding how to proceed. If you are the reporter on any of these light blue tickets, take a good look at the ticket and determine if this is still an issue or not. **Don Moses & Brandon Weigel, would you both be open to a Skype chat sometime about your tickets?**

### Other stuff on the agenda
This things are more discussions than updates, so they should wait for a later meeting.

## Next Meeting
* January 26, 2017 - 3pm EST
* Chair: 
* Note Taker: 
