# Islandora IR Interest Group
## April 28, 2016, 3:00-4:00 PM EST (Skype)

## Agenda
1. Introductions
2. Dicussion about informal survey on Islandora Google Group
3. [CLAW Training](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fislandora.ca%2Fcontent%2Fislandora-claw-lessons-sign-form&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNE6KqWOG8fDUw_U6Cs-vGtd4L831g) and community participation

## Notes

* Informal survey
	* See discussion on Islandora Google Group: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/islandora/BAPes792bpo
	* Sites in production include: Boston College, Florida State University, Berklee School of Music, UPEI (on Drupal 6). Note that these are only those that responded to the post. 
	* Many others in process of preparing migration/implementation for IR or asssessing their options
	* Emily Toner will be contacting others who have implemented IRs in Islandora, but did not respond the survey or have not participated in the interest group. 
* Development of Scholar installation profile -- Mitch MacKenzie on the call to discuss new project that he is developing to help with minimal install of Scholar, with preset Drupal configurations (ex. Solr views, standard ingest forms, etc.)
	* Mitch is looking for ideas and input regarrding the development of this and what should be included -- will post to the IR Google group with more details
	* This interest group has also previously discussed developing list of standard modules used for Islandora IR's, beyond Scholar module. We should consider compiling the efforts of insitutions with sites in production. 
* Donald Moses gives the group a preview of the new UPEI beta site. 
* [CLAW Training](http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fislandora.ca%2Fcontent%2Fislandora-claw-lessons-sign-form&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNE6KqWOG8fDUw_U6Cs-vGtd4L831g)
	* Melissa also encoruages people to participate in the weekly tech calls regarding CLAW, if the group is interested in contributing to its ongoing development. 
* Islandora release testing: last-minute Scholar tester needed for Islandora release. Please let Melissa A. know if you are interested. 

The next Skype call will be on May 26, 3:00PM EST. 
	
