# Islandora IR Interest Group
## August 28, 2017, 3:00 - 4:00 PM EST ([Join Skype](https://join.skype.com/s7ntDOmjhbjT))

## Attendees
- Devin Soper :chicken:
- Rachel Smart :sparkles: :pencil2: 
- Keila Zayas Ruiz
- Don Richards
- Bryan Brown
- John O'Connor
- Brandon Weigel
- Joanne Parandjuk :sparkles:
- Carolyn Moritz :sparkles:

## Notes
- New meeting time: 
  - Brandon’s points: 
    - Maybe summer is to blame for low attendance
    - Invite others beyond the Islandora community
    - Make it more IR-admin friendly (less technobabble)
    - Tease demos (etc.) to the IR-Managers google group
   - Doodle poll results: https://beta.doodle.com/poll/63y4ur5r4qcxcwi8
   - Winners: 
     - Mondays 3PM
     - Tuesdays 1,2,3PM
     - Wednesdays 11AM, 3PM
     - Thursdays 3PM *Winner*
- 7.x-1.10 release team (sign up here)
  - Brandon would like testers for Badges
  - Possibility of having 3 maintainers for Scholar (Bryan, Don, Brandon)
  - All who can possibly help should pitch in
  - Great introduction to the release process, WE WILL HELP YOU!
  - Scholars needs testers
- Demo of UTK’s new ETD submission module
  - Submitters can freely edit their submission (metadata and files) until the submission is accepted. They can view their file versions and download their file.
  - Submission manager can correspond with submitter through a messaging system. A log is kept as a datastream “MESSAGES”.
  - ETDs will not appear until submitter has been awarded their degree.
  - Joanne asks: Can you show where/who selects the embargo does the student set it within submission process or how is the thesis manager obtaining the embargo request dates?
    - Thesis or collection manager sets the embargo
  - Will that be the same for faculty submissions?
    - TRACE administrators are responsible
  - Things people really like: progress bar at the top of the form, the form is broken into multiple parts, email templates
  - Don Richards: “We are planning to pipe some of this into the community module. Some of the logic is in our theme right now.”
    - Bryan expresses an interest in stealing
    - https://github.com/utkdigitalinitiatives/TRACE
  - Everything for ETDs is on one site.
  - Tombstoning policies and procedures: https://trace.utk.edu/about
    - Order comes from Provost
    - Degree is rescinded or revoked
    - “This item is no longer available”
    - Embargoing an object entirely will trigger the tombstone
    - Retraction notices: minimal metadata still available w/ notice
    - Module: https://github.com/DonRichards/islandora_scholar_tombstone 

## Next Meeting
* Thursday, September 28, 2017 - 3pm EDT
* Chair: Bryan Brown
* Note Taker: ???
