# Islandora IR Interest Group
## November 15, 2018, 3:00 - 4:00 PM EST ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

## Agenda
- Call for volunteers: 
  - Note taker: 
  - Chair for next meeting:
- Next meeting date
  - No December meeting
  - January 24, 2019
- OpenAIRE
  - https://duraspace.org/statement-from-dspace-steering-group-on-the-dspace-7-data-model/ 
- Don Richards demo of UTK browser testing tool
  - [Video](https://youtu.be/BRRwEPhGakw)
  - https://github.com/DonRichards/islandora_vagrant_workflow_test 
- iCampCA updates
- LASIR Update
  - Task 1 (SEO) - for Task 1 objective, we will be enhancing SEO by including a jira ticket that has been outstanding in the community (https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-2262 - we’ve interpreted that as an in general call to help optimize the Islandora Google Scholar submodule, leading to better SEO). Other tasks have been proceeding well as well, and we're really trying to keep an eye out for building on work that was already done, and meeting community need and our needs.
  - Task 2 (readership reports) - Born-Digital creating wireframes. Lots of great progress to leverage community work (extending Diego’s Piwik/Matomo module) and build / improve on it. 
  - Task 3 (scholar profiles) - steering committee reviewing taxonomies and Scholar work to ensure confidence in various pieces of the profiles. Born-Digital working with UPEI to scope scripting their Scholar Profiles setup.
  - Task 4 (workflow) - TBD
  - Task 5 (other repos) - worked through changes to task, more robust, getting metadata output options together
  - Steering Committee opening: we have an opening for one more person to join. Recommendations, self-nominations accepted. Contact Bryan Brown or Mark Christel who can bring to the full LASIR SC. 

## Attendees
- Bryan Brown :chicken:
- Don Richards
- Brandon Weigel
- Daniel Lamb
- Melissa Anez
- Felicity Dykas


## Notes
- Discussed OpenAIRE and what it would take to implement it.  Part of OAI-PMH, and it would be good to program against it as a standard to make sure we can export both DC _and_ OpenAIRE to guarantee we’re not locked in to a single metadata profile.
- Don demo’d his sweet selenium testing tool, which fills out forms with test data to test workfows.
- Melissa and Don gave us an iCamp CA update.


## Next Meeting
* Time: Thursday, January 25, 2019 - 3pm ET
* Chair: ???
