# Islandora IR Interest Group
## September 27, 2018, 3:00 - 4:00 PM EST ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

## Agenda
- Call for volunteers: 
  - Note taker: Michael Mohkamkar
  - Chair for next meeting: ???
- Welcome new member: Michael Mohkamkar
- 7.x-1.12 Release Updates
  - [First release meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pl1p075HBj_aNsY25vLC-5WxEzLODixfB5V5zbHwfEw/edit?usp=sharing)
  - [Release spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PRv2Xo-sNE_sDJHUT5OvTXmNiSHnkdJgwo7VsFkIUgY/edit#gid=1007226068)
  - Volunteers needed
    - Testing Manager for entire release
    - Component Manager for Islandora XML Sitemap
    - Tester & Documenter for Islandora Badges
    - Tester for Islandora Usage Stats
  - Code freeze Oct 19, release Nov 30
  - Implement new features & improvements before the code freeze
  - Fix bugs, test & document after the code freeze
- LASIR Update


## Attendees
- Bryan Brown :chicken:
- Rachel Smart
- Don Richards
- Michael Mohkamkar :pencil2:
- Brandon Weigel
- Devin Soper
- Josh d’Entremont


## Notes
- IRIG is running the show - Bryan/Brandon/Don are managers for Islandora 7.x-1.12 Release
- Component managers, testers, a testing manager, and documenters needed. Sign up on the Release Spreadsheet.
- Next ISG meeting 4th Thursday of the month, to involve them in the Release (Post Release Spreadsheet to the ISG Listserv- Wilhelmina)
- LASIR 
  - Task document - Tasks 1 & 5 - Search aggregator and Integration with (pushing to) external platforms
  - SEO optimization - more metatags - Google Scholar loves them
  - Review Islandora XML sitemap module
  - Lessons to learn from Bepress Commons - Islandora Commons (Central Hub)? To scrape all other islandora sites for metadata only (OAI-PMH harvester?), maybe.
  - Bepress - Harvard Bluebook Citation - dealbreaker for moving to Islandora
    - Smallcaps implemented in special font rather than through CSS or other method
  - One big Islandora Commons (not a separate law and other commons)
    - Elsevier owns Bepress
     - Issues getting stuff out of Bepress down the road
    - Islandora - lack of controlled vocabulary
    - DPLA Hub people - might be good to talk to/ invite to future conversations
    - Buzz that could be generated from Islandora Commons would be good
    - Example case: would materials go from IR → SSRN or SSRN → IR?
      - Easier to build tools and scrape from web to IR than convince faculty to do things the other way around. 
      - Missing metadata such as institutional affiliation can make it difficult to do this. 
      - Papers that have many authors/institutions such as STEM papers might lack aforementioned metadata.
    - Don: “Are datasets part of this?”
      - New google dataset search tool : https://toolbox.google.com/datasetsearch News: https://www.blog.google/products/search/making-it-easier-discover-datasets/ documentation: https://developers.google.com/search/docs/data-types/dataset 
      - New module/submodule?
      - How to store it? Can they just be stored as binary objects, should additional support be added for spreadsheets?
  
## Next Meeting
* Time: Thursday, October 25, 2018 - 3pm ET
* Chair: ???
