# Islandora IR Interest Group
## July 26, 2018, 3:00 - 4:00 PM EST ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

## Attendees
- Don Richards :chicken: 
- Rachel Smart 
- Bryan Brown
- Brandon Weigel
- Melissa Anez
- Joanna DiPasquale
- Wilhelmina Randtke
- Diego Pino :pencil2:

## Notes
- Call for volunteers:
  - Note taker: Diego
  - Chair for next meeting: Rachel?
- Discussion of ISLANDORA-2251 PR
  - Help Needed:
    -  Don had to guess a few XPath values so asks for review. 
    -  Question about documenting each XPATH and what they mean. Where to find documentation, from code? 
  - Wilhelmina:  You might could get better feedback along the way with documentation and even some notification outside the form itself (Tab title).
  - Bryan: Good UX. Ciould be good to integrate Expand/collapse for the 52 fields.
  - Bryan: Need to clarify where each is used/how it affects display/functionality. Low hanging fruit: where/how each XPATH (which module) is used.
  - Don has enough information and it will take him +- a day long to update the pull request.
- Islandora 7.x-1.12 planning (IR Avengers Assemble!)
  - Open tickets for IR modules
    - [Tasks (4)](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1270?jql=project%20%3D%20ISLANDORA%20AND%20issuetype%20in%20(%22Code%20Task%22%2C%20Task)%20AND%20resolution%20%3D%20Unresolved%20AND%20component%20in%20(Badges%2C%20%22IP%20Embargo%22%2C%20%22Scholar%20Module%22%2C%20%22Usage%20Stats%22%2C%20%22XML%20Sitemap%22)%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC%2C%20updated%20DESC)
    - [Bugs (9)](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1291?jql=project%20%3D%20ISLANDORA%20AND%20issuetype%20%3D%20Bug%20AND%20resolution%20%3D%20Unresolved%20AND%20component%20in%20(Badges%2C%20%22IP%20Embargo%22%2C%20%22Scholar%20Module%22%2C%20%22Usage%20Stats%22%2C%20%22XML%20Sitemap%22)%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC%2C%20updated%20DESC)
    - [Improvements (25)](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-2251?jql=project%20%3D%20ISLANDORA%20AND%20issuetype%20%3D%20Improvement%20AND%20resolution%20%3D%20Unresolved%20AND%20component%20in%20(Badges%2C%20%22IP%20Embargo%22%2C%20%22Scholar%20Module%22%2C%20%22Usage%20Stats%22%2C%20%22XML%20Sitemap%22)%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC%2C%20updated%20DESC)
    - [New Features (4)](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1551?jql=project%20%3D%20ISLANDORA%20AND%20issuetype%20%3D%20%22New%20Feature%22%20AND%20resolution%20%3D%20Unresolved%20AND%20component%20in%20(Badges%2C%20%22IP%20Embargo%22%2C%20%22Scholar%20Module%22%2C%20%22Usage%20Stats%22%2C%20%22XML%20Sitemap%22)%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC%2C%20updated%20DESC)
  - Bryan: Please adopt any tickets you can.
  - Report on progress at future meetings and ask for help if needed.
  - We can hold special meetings to look into specific tickets.
  - Bryan: Opening tickets is as important as closing them (refering to Brandon's great work on opening 80% of all existing tickets)

- LASIR Phase I: July 30-December 1, 2018 - REQUEST FOR IMMEDIATE IRIG HELP!
  - Goal: wireframe and create specifications for subsequently implementing with Phase II development. [See LASIR Executive Summary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iRCOhiLRFoqEF3alOQiLEaK8-IGc1KArWLBMYv8xWEk/edit#) for details.
  - Request to IRIG: Please help create a list of the “State of Islandora” for the 5 LASIR features, so that this project may build on and extend what’s already been development in Islandora Scholar. 
  Please contribute existing Islandora Scholar modules, open JIRA tickets, and other work that relates to LASIR Phase I features using the [LASIR: Tasks Report [DRAFT]](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cgTTKX4MBvvYZNHUIvwjIHLVCA5eRP7v5qLDmTe2W-E/edit); add information (for each feature) under the subheader titled “State of Islandora - Steering Committee”.
  - Use Cases - We also are interested in your input regarding in-scope Use Cases (see features in Exec Summary).
  - Bryan made a [LASIR](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1816?jql=labels%20%3D%20LASIR ) tag we should use it to identify JIRA tickets that are in scope for this work.
  - 5 Goals/ Features:
    - Search engine optimization (SEO) and Google Scholar integration 
      - Does this dovetail with https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1816 ?
      - Defining up front: there are a few different standards, so we would want to clarify. E.g., do we want to do all in META tags? Great until hitting max. If large repository, must work on layout to meet specifications.
      - Feedback from the group: “State of Islandora” doesn’t have to be positive, e.g., “Islandora can already do X.” We also want “Islandora doesn’t do this well” or “This is required for a good OOTB experience.” 
      - Scholar META tags are there, but not as well as it should be, some items could be missing according to Don.
        - Citation author may have multiple authors
        - Front page, last page
        - Citation volume / issue
      - Make sure that the submodule eclipses required tags, as well as have as many optional tags as possible
  - Usage stats/impact factor/assessment, including system-generated visualizations of usage/content
  - Enhanced author profiles for university and college faculty members
  - A generalized and simplified self-deposit workflow
    - Don: implemented inside Islandora submission workflow.
    - Bryan: submission workflow, but fully Drupal and not Islandora.
    - Don’s workflow uses university login CAS credentials, anyone can log in. User profile is generated, built in Drupal. Then auto assigned a role to submit but can’t publish, lots of restrictions added to what is submitted. Submitted to collection already specified, similar to workflow in bepress: select to community/collection, fill out form associated, goes to community manager. Table built to see the submissions in a relevant collection. Email feedback form can go directly to student submitter, copies to datastream (feedback DS) to keep a record. When thesis manager wants to accept the content, they go to “Items to Accept” list, hit “Apply,” which goes to “Items to Publish” list. When time to publish, can indiv or batch publish. Ownership transfers to repository user, student can no longer edit. Only administrators can now edit, comment, etc. Can add supplemental files (up to 999) but not edit, etc. Don offered access to dev environment to see the process. If we can get up to speed on this, we (LASIR) can probably push the project farther along.
  - Facilitate the ability to contribute to larger disciplinary networks.
    - ORCID parsing is difficult! But we could all tackle it.
    - We could focus on a lot of other better integration (Google, ORCID, profiles, etc.) -- e.g., we could be on Google’s integration agenda; we should focus on this once we have the metadata structured properly.
    - N.B. UTK digital initiatives may have had to modify core Islandora to make it work, but anything on github is available and ready to examine

## Next Meeting
* Time: Thursday, August 23, 2018 - 3pm ET
* Chair: Rachel
