# Islandora IR Interest Group
## July 26, 2018, 3:00 - 4:00 PM EST ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

## Attendees
- Don Richards :chicken:
- Rachel Smart
- Wilhelmina Randtke
- Bryan Brown
- Brandon Weigel
- Melissa Anez
- Diego Pino :pencil2:
- Joanna DiPasquale

## Notes
- Call for volunteers: 
  - Note taker: Diego
  - Chair for next meeting: No volunteer
- Discussion of [ISLANDORA-2251 PR](https://github.com/Islandora/islandora_scholar/pull/299)
  - Moving along
- Islandora 7.x-1.12 planning (IR Avengers Assemble!)
  - Open tickets for IR modules
    - [Tasks (4)](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1270?jql=project%20%3D%20ISLANDORA%20AND%20issuetype%20in%20(%22Code%20Task%22%2C%20Task)%20AND%20resolution%20%3D%20Unresolved%20AND%20component%20in%20(Badges%2C%20%22IP%20Embargo%22%2C%20%22Scholar%20Module%22%2C%20%22Usage%20Stats%22%2C%20%22XML%20Sitemap%22)%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC%2C%20updated%20DESC)
    - [Bugs (9)](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1291?jql=project%20%3D%20ISLANDORA%20AND%20issuetype%20%3D%20Bug%20AND%20resolution%20%3D%20Unresolved%20AND%20component%20in%20(Badges%2C%20%22IP%20Embargo%22%2C%20%22Scholar%20Module%22%2C%20%22Usage%20Stats%22%2C%20%22XML%20Sitemap%22)%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC%2C%20updated%20DESC)
    - [Improvements (25)](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-2251?jql=project%20%3D%20ISLANDORA%20AND%20issuetype%20%3D%20Improvement%20AND%20resolution%20%3D%20Unresolved%20AND%20component%20in%20(Badges%2C%20%22IP%20Embargo%22%2C%20%22Scholar%20Module%22%2C%20%22Usage%20Stats%22%2C%20%22XML%20Sitemap%22)%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC%2C%20updated%20DESC)
    - [New Features (4)](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1551?jql=project%20%3D%20ISLANDORA%20AND%20issuetype%20%3D%20%22New%20Feature%22%20AND%20resolution%20%3D%20Unresolved%20AND%20component%20in%20(Badges%2C%20%22IP%20Embargo%22%2C%20%22Scholar%20Module%22%2C%20%22Usage%20Stats%22%2C%20%22XML%20Sitemap%22)%20ORDER%20BY%20priority%20DESC%2C%20updated%20DESC)
  - Please adopt any tickets you can
  - Report on progress at future meetings
  - We can hold special meetings to look into specific tickets
- LASIR Phase I: July 30-December 1, 2018 - REQUEST FOR IMMEDIATE IRIG HELP!
  - Goal: wireframe and create specifications for subsequently implementing with Phase II development. See [LASIR Executive Summary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iRCOhiLRFoqEF3alOQiLEaK8-IGc1KArWLBMYv8xWEk/edit#) for details)
  - Request to IRIG: Please help create a list of the “State of Islandora” for the 5 LASIR features, so that this project may build on and extend what’s already been development in Islandora Scholar. Please contribute existing Islandora Scholar modules, open JIRA tickets, and other work that relates to LASIR Phase I features using the  LASIR: Tasks Report [DRAFT]; add information (for each feature) under the subheader titled “State of Islandora - Steering Committee”.
  - Use Cases - We also are interested in your input regarding in-scope Use Cases (see features in Exec Summary).
  - Bryan made a LASIR tag → we should use it to identify JIRA tickets that are in scope for this work: https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1816?jql=labels%20%3D%20LASIR 
  - Goals:
    - Search engine optimization (SEO) and Google Scholar integration 
      - Does this dovetail with [https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1816](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-1816)?
      - Defining up front: there are a few different standards, so we would want to clarify. E.g., do we want to do all in META tags? Great until hitting max. If large repository, must work on layout to meet specifications.
      - Feedback from the group: “State of Islandora” doesn’t have to be positive, e.g., “Islandora can already do X.” We also want “Islandora doesn’t do this well” or “This is required for a good OOTB experience.” 
      - Scholar META tags are there, but not as well as it should be → some items are missing
        - Citation author may have multiple authors
        - Front page, last page
        - Citation volume / issue
      - Make sure that the submodule eclipses required tags, as well as have as many optional tags as possible
  - Usage stats/impact factor/assessment, including system-generated visualizations of usage/content
  - Enhanced author profiles for university and college faculty members
  - A generalized and simplified self-deposit workflow
    - Don → implemented inside Islandora submission workflow
    - Bryan → submission workflow, but fully Drupal and not Islandora
    - Don’s workflow → university login CAS credentials, all can log in. User profile generated, built in Drupal. Then auto assigned a role to submit but can’t publish, lots of restrictions added to what is submitted. Submitted to collection already specified, similar to workflow in bepress: select to community/collection, fill out form associated, goes to community manager. Table built to see the submissions in a relevant collection. Email feedback form can go directly to student submitter, copies to datastream (feedback DS) to keep a record. When thesis manager wants to accept the content, they go to “Items to Accept” list, hit “Apply,” which goes to “Items to Publish” list. When time to publish, can indiv or batch publish. Ownership transfers to repository user, student can no longer edit. Only administrators can now edit, comment, etc. Can add supplemental files (up to 999) but not edit, etc. Don offered access to dev environment to see the process. If we can get up to speed on this, we (LASIR) can probably push the project farther along.
  - Facilitate the ability to contribute to larger disciplinary networks
    - ORCID parsing is difficult! But we could all tackle it.
    - We could focus on a lot of other better integration (Google, ORCID, profiles, etc.) -- e.g., we could be on Google’s integration agenda; we should focus on this once we have the metadata structured properly.
    - N.B. UTK digital initiatives may have had to modify core Islandora to make it work, but anything on github is available and ready to examine

## Next Meeting
* Time: Thursday, July 26, 2018 - 3pm ET
* Chair: ???
