# Islandora IR Interest Group
## August 22, 2019, 3:00 - 4:00 PM EST ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

## Agenda
-  Call for volunteers: 
- Note taker: Amy Blau
- Chair for next meeting:
-  Open Discussion / Questions
-  Demo
-  Tickets
  -  [ISLANDORA-2465](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-2465)
  -  [ISLANDORA-2450](https://jira.duraspace.org/browse/ISLANDORA-2450)

## Attendees
- Don Richards :chicken:
- Amy Blau :pencil2:
- Chris Barnes
- David Keiser-Clark
- Eli Zoller
- Jordan Hale
- Sarah Lippincott
- Brandon Weigel

# Notes:

- Call for questions in general. 
- David Keiser-Clark: Has there been discussion here in this group about moving forward with /refactoring work on LASIR to Islandora 8? 
- Don Richards: minimal conversation about moving to 8. In CLAW wiki there was a brief discussion in July where it was mentioned they wanted to use metatag module for Google Scholar and indexing. Last month with roundup on Islandora 8, list of must-haves didn’t include Islandora Scholar. This needs to be addressed. Is this something LASIR can start?
- DKC: need to be more of a community effort, ascertain degree of value of work done, what needs to be brought in. There is more interest in Islandora as an IR alternative than there has been (esp given Elsevier bepress purchase) but to capitalize on that we have to make sure it’s available in Islandora 8. This could be something Sarah / Born Digital could take the lead on
- Sarah Lippencott: there is untapped interest in Islandora as an IR, functionality needs to be in Islandora 8. We can start on mapping that now, but that would be best informed by data from use of LASIR in the field, which functionalities are highest priority. Unclear from Islandora 8 demos what functionalities will be addressed in other ways/Drupal modules in 8 that won’t require custom development. How to build repositories using existing tools.
- Eli Zoller: might be worth putting issues in CLAW Github with use cases. 
- Amy Blau: concern about implementing LASIR in 7 without knowing what will happen in 8.
- DKC: helpful for schools using it to document how LASIR is helpful. Working demo that shows what LASIR accomplishes, webinar to demo what it does. Upcoming meeting with a university looking at leaving bepress on a tight schedule, looking at Islandora 7 as an alternative.  [LASIR info here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BwWnQmDKeQGBelFDQ2UxdXhWdE5Wdmx1UVp6c1E0cmhHaTBB/view)
- Don Richards: a ticket in CLAW is a good place to start conversation; think there is a road map that Scholar is on, but not active work yet. 
- Sarah L: started putting together a feature comparison of Digital Commons or other institutional repositories with LASIR work. Useful basis for discussing IR support in Islandora.
- Don: Is everyone here on Slack channel for IR list? Documentation for modules could be clearer -- if we could clarify what the Scholar module provides, that would help distinguish between Scholar and PDF content module. 
- Sarah L: wrapping up LASIR for Islandora 7 with documentation on new modules and enhancements, will include page on wiki on setting up an IR in Islandora that explains what all of the pieces do and how to create the IR functionality. Could be even more of a set of workflows and configuration of modules in Islandora 8.
- DKC (in chat) : linking to an IR Demo page from that Wiki page would be a wonderful
- Don: documentation before making module is pseudo-code. Indicates some workflow changes. Explain added value of Google Scholar, for example. What is the date for LASIR completion?
- Sarah L: finished at end of September
- DKC: terms of the grant dictate September 30, serendipitous that it aligns with Islandoracon.
- Don: David’s mention of an example/demo/sandbox would be a really useful tool. Videos/instructions  on how to install would be equally useful.
- DKC: presentation at Islandoracon offers opportunity to dialogue at other points in the conference. Birds of a feather breakfast/lunch or similar venue to talk about current 7 or future 8 IR plans.
- Don: there are windows on the schedule. 
- DKC: best approaches to make this happen? 
- Don: morning hours are open
- DKC: David and Sarah will work on this offline.
- Amy: interested in how LASIR will interact with current Scholar functionality
- Don: Any demos that people would like to show? Or something they would like to bring attention to? Since no, look at some tickets. 
- Brandon: CSL {?} style sheets are not stored in file system but are written into database. This was discussed on committers’ call. Would like to have a place in file system, but overall were wary of the idea, but thought you should at least be able to export these files to download or edit.
- Don: was there any feedback you wanted on this?
- Brandon: was hoping people would want to leave them as files, would like different sites in multisite environment to access one file, but at least an export function would be helpful.
- Don: you want to store in site data directory?
- Brandon: site file directory. But committers’ group decided against that approach.
- Don: in a module will it interrupt custom update process?
- Brandon: shouldn’t because untracked.
- Don: Ability to export seems like a no-brainer. Ability to store locally somewhere seems like a good idea, like in defaults directory.
- Brandon: only recently figured out that this is what was happening. 
- Don: If you added an extra step in submit you could save to a directory that won’t get wiped out when you clear your temp. If anyone has comments, please add to the ticket.
- Don: second ticket 2450, expand Google Scholar to more content models.
- Brandon: this is what embeds the metatags. Only does to citation and thesis objects. Should be able to do this with other objects as well.
- Don: if it fires on a page that doesn’t meet requirements for Google Scholar, it could hurt the site.
- Brandon: already code built in to Islandora Scholar that won’t do the metatags unless required info is present
- Don: question for this group for or against this
- Amy: interested in having this potentially work for audio/video and other content modules, since pdfs can just be entered as thesis content module.
- Sarah: potential problems from extending to all content in repository, would we get pushback from Google Scholar folks for inadvertent indexing of non-scholarly content. Book, pdf content models used for scholarly content that aren’t being used.
- Don: large emphasis on inclusion page of Google Scholar on pdfs, how they define scholarly work and datasets. Non-pdf or non-html page as scholarly material, how that gets treated for their system. Wouldn’t want to set people up to misconfigure and not be able to have content indexed in google. [Link to guide on Google Scholar indexing](https://scholar.google.com/intl/en/scholar/inclusion.html)
- Sarah: this would be a question for Google Scholar contact (Monica Westin) to answer, potentially. 
- Don: maybe @ Monica in the ticket, see if this would impact indexing.
- Brandon: can email her.
- Don: ideas for next month’s meeting, chair for next month’s meeting would help. Let me know between now and September 26. Topics that you’d like to discuss for future calls, include here as well, add to bottom of agenda here. 

**Next Meeting:** Thursday, September 26 @ 3PM EST

**Chair:**
**Note Taker: **
