# Islandora IR Interest Group
## June 27, 2019, 3:00 - 4:00 PM EST ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

## Agenda
- all for volunteers: 
  - Note taker: 
  - Chair for next meeting:
- Google Scholar overview + Q&A with Anurag Acharya and Monica Westin from Google Scholar
  - Anurag on Google Scholar indexing setups and best practices
  - Questions from Monica
  -   Plans to include indexing support as a standard option?
  -   Webinar about Google Scholar indexing for Islandora? 
  -   User groups/listservs for community?
  - Questions from the Islandora community (please add to this):
    - Please describe process to find citations? Do you partner with publishers?
- Open Repositories catch-up
  - CRIS integration (future topic?)
  - OCFL (Oxford Common File Layout)
  - OAI-PMH vs ResourceSync
- iCamp Switzerland 
  - Lib4RI metadata enrichment
  - [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1MCoEitVs1Ch2K6ZTetYSiaiBACKFdgai) with a workflow diagram.
  - [GitHub repo](https://github.com/Lib4RI/pub_db_lib)

## Notes
- Google scholar overview with Anurag and Monica
  - Anurag: history of his work with Scholar
  - Monica: started at Scholar this winter (from Repository world; Cal Digital, bepress)
  - Anurag: go over high level overview of what Scholar does and needs to index a repository, then more details, questions about specifics.
    - 2 main things: indexing system needs to find all article URLs if it can index the articles. Can be harder than it seems. Crawler doesn’t just crawl one site, but entire web at once in parallel. If list is long, it won’t be indexed all at once. For larger repositories, paging through hundreds of thousands of articles 25 at a time would be a multi-year effort. Newer ways to let crawlers go through quickly. D-space has XML and html browse page, based on counts not structure. Hierarchical structure lets crawler get articles more quickly. Add a site map or time-based browse. That would allow all articles in repository to be found, quickly added. 
    - Next step after finding all URLs, is to identify which of these is []. Embed information in a machine readable form in addition to human readable. Title, author, pub date are the most common tags, dissertation information, granting institution, journal, etc. Dublin Core widely used but limited, because designed to cover everything, therefore not detailed. DC cannot easily represent pub details like issue number. Tags for scholarly publications do support this. There is a scholar plug-in for islandora that provides this functionality. One should enable this by default, rather than require each administrator to figure out how to enable it. Indexing support is standard in all larger repository platforms: D-Space, Figshare, Opus, MyCore, E-Prints, etc. 
    - Presentation (will send to everyone at meeting today). Slide deck in the chat. There is also a video.  
  - Monica: The main items of site map and metatags are important for all repositories, should be standard. Important to be aware of keeping metatags, not losing them when moving from one repository system to another. Is indexing as standard on the Islandora roadmap? Talked to a group that is working on a project that would address this
  - Sarah L: time-based browse approach, views of all content by year as new contribution to Scholar, fixed some things in metatag generator as well. Born-Digital has worked with clients to get metatags set up correctly, broader outreach is needed.
  - Would it be possible to have enabled by default in new installations?
  - Sarah L: for Born Digital, we could enable that for clients.
  - Brandon (in chat): It would be possible to make it so that it’s enabled when you enable the Scholar module. Could even do it with an update hook
  - Anurag: other major repositories enable this automatically with install.
  - Daniel: Islandora 7 stack sunsetting; hard to push through larger changes. In 8, there is a default config module with installer, and it is possible to take configuration needed for browse by year page, have metatags set up. It would be pretty easy to do with Islandora 8 and making it standard.
  - Brandon: would be possible even in 7 to enable metatag with implementation of scholar module, also possibly with an update hook. 
  - Jonathan (in chat): As an action item I think making a ticket to make sure this happen in I8 would be a good thing.
  - Islandora 7 not just an IR platform, not uniformly used for that, so therefore not necessarily needed built-in IR functionality. LASIR documenting how to deploy as an IR.
  - Anurag: Not everyone reads the documentation as they should. If Islandora is used more often as repository than not, it would be better to make it automatic
  - Brandon: automatic implementation with using scholar module might make sense. Scholar module provides content models for theses and articles.
  - Brybrown: Issues in the community people using Islandora as an IR but without using Scholar, instead using the PDF content module and then having issues. 
  - Monica: issues with this kind of situation. Had been unclear about difference between scholar module and metatag module
  - Bryjbrown: scholar contains submodules, some used widely, others not, and all are not necessarily used.
  - Monica: is there an admin dashboard with plugins, or is everything installed directly?
  - Bryjbrown: admin dashboard, Drupal
  - Anurag: possible to share screenshot of how to set this up in Islandora 7 to enable indexing?
  - Monica: In terms of communicating out about issues, is there a user group or listserve where I can flag these issues so that the community knows?
  - In chat link from Melissa Anez
  - Don Richards: google group, Jira site for submitting tickets
  - Is there a suitable avenue to reach people who are having trouble with indexing? Google group.
  - Melissa Anez: happy to facilitate contacts with repositories if they aren’t responding through google group.
  - Monica: Webinars with D-Space user groups about common errors, high-level overview of indexing, how to check coverage in Google scholar. Would there be interest in community about collaborating on what to do with 7, what will happen in 8?
  - Melissa: yes, Islandora Foundation spinning up more webinars, interested in collaborating with Google Scholar.
  - Questions
    - Don: inclusion site suggested metatags or browse by date.
      - Anurag: always want metatags. Date helps crawler find article, tags help to identify as an article.
    - Bryjbrown: googlebot crawls website, decides if academic or not, kicks over to scholar crawler -- is that right, how does Google crawler decide if site is scholarly
      - Anurag: Google crawler doesn’t do academic determination. All done by scholar crawler which is independent, decides what is possibly scholarly, then identifies if it is scholarly. Metatags identify what item is, second part how it ties in to scholarship. Scholarly ID how article is described, how it ties in with things already known to be scholarly (well-known journals, IRs, etc.) New site or article needs to bring relationship of that article with everything else. 
    - Don: Is there a tool to use for testing to see how your site is being crawled? Google search has a tool to check with indexing problems
      - Anurag: no. Checking is done manually. Monica: all checking is sample-based. Search for site and see number of results. Number for repositories lower. Choose a number of URLs for articles across the repo. Grab a couple of articles from each collection, see if they appear in all versions of scholar search results. 
    - Melissa: Islandora 7 sandbox may not have scholar up by default.
    - Don: vagrant test environment.
    - Monica: demo site to walk people through adding metatags. We would look at a test/demo site.
    - Don: local test environment. 
    - Anurag: would look at a site already up, not able to spin up own site.
    - Daniel: for 8, future.islandora.ca, once issue is resolved and scholar can be looked at, that would be a test site to look at, will solicit list for examples for 7
    - Katie: in 7x, PDF content model, having issues with that, appreciate inclusion guidelines to index contents without metatags. Would potentially be guinea pig to document the issue. 
      - Monica: if you generate screen shots and text, Google Scholar could collaborate. 
      - Brandon: there are tools to change content model after the fact. 
      - Don: work in Google tag manager plug-in to be turn-key for Scholar module. It might be worth switching content modules. 
    - Melissa: looking forward to collaborating in various ways.
- Open Repositories catch-up
  - Bryjbrown: D-Space seems to be gaining more traction than in previous years, especially in Europe for consortial instances. Between bepress selected works (like entities in 7x), D-space also has a plug-in with profiles for people and departments. Making more like a current researcher information system (CRIS) changing the assumption of what an IR is. How to manage scholar profiles, authority data in IRs as a potential topic for a future meeting. 
    - Sarah L: LASIR working on this for 7, profiles module is in the works. Would like to see conversations on how that might inform work in 8. 
    - Bryjbrown: demo of that profile feature at next IR interest group meeting?
    - Sarah L: yes. Template for person entity to be affiliated with department, publications in repository. Modeled on Island Scholar from UPEI. 
    - Bryjbrown: could potentially be a whole meeting. 
  - Bryjbrown: Also OCFL, Oxford Common File System Layout, repository-agnostic standard for storing assets and metadata on a system. Fedora 6 will have this underneath, so this may affect us. Also presentation about resource-sync, a standard for letting someone else crawl repository rather than OAI-PMH, with fewer http requests, something that is being discussed. 
    - Daniel: OCFL as a pivoting of Fedora project back to its roots in 6. Transparent file system component which is what a lot of people want. Will introduce complexities that will affect custom installs, but not Islandora as much, we should be able to take advantage of it.
- iCamp Switzerland 
  - Melissa: automated metadata enrichment tool, slides and workflow to fetch data automatically from Scopus, PubMed etc. to save steps. PHP library doing this might be portable to 8 because it’s self-contained.
- Call for things, sign-up before Islandora 7 release.
  - Release sign-up spreadsheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PRv2Xo-sNE_sDJHUT5OvTXmNiSHnkdJgwo7VsFkIUgY/edit#gid=381055463

## Next Meeting
* Time: Thursday, July 25, 2019 - 3pm ET
