# Islandora IR Interest Group
## January 24, 2019, 3:00 - 4:00 PM EST ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

## Agenda
- Call for volunteers: 
  - Note taker
  - Chair for next meeting
- Interest in new chair?
- 2019 Priorities?
- LASIR Update
- Hypothes.is and other annotation software in the context of IRs

## Attendees
- Bryan Brown :chicken:
- Melissa Anez
- Brad Spry
- Pat Dunlavey :pencil2:
- Don Richards
- Brandon Weigel
- Wilhelmina Randtke

## Notes
- Don Richards offered to take turns organizing/running the meeting.
- 2019 priorities:
  - Islandora 7.x to 8.x
    - This is a very scary area. Lots of workflow changes.
    - Scholarly metadata migration to rdf. Work with metadata IG.
    - Thesis and citation module interaction with entity module (people) records.
    - Viewers - pdf is already covered. Binary “anti-viewer”. Use google datasets viewer? SEO to get data indexed by google datasets.
    - Better UX for compound objects in 8.x
    - Challenge is Drupal 8 developer on-ramp.
    - A 1:1 document, explaining what each 7.x concept matches in 8.x. 
    - Video is a great way to do documentation.
    - Starting point: the metadata migration path for IR.
    - OAI => ILS (or marcxml, whatever)
  - Student user submission process - start with 7.x, but also do for 8.x
    - This is a priority of LASIR for 7.x and ultimately 8.x
  - Useful to have show-and-tell agenda item in this meeting for people not familiar with it. 
    - Datastreams io - Bryan
    - Xslt proquest -> mods, solr customization: Brad
    - Remote Media SP: Brandon
    - Islandora Managed Access - Bryan
    - AWS setup, Islandora Drag and Drop for AWS - Brad
    - Disk Image SP - doesn’t support EnCase E01 format. Suggested creating JIRA ticket.
- Concern: Islandora IR google list gets little traffic. Bryan suggests nuking it. Is there a way to archive it? Consensus is to keep it available, but archive.
- LASIR:
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cgTTKX4MBvvYZNHUIvwjIHLVCA5eRP7v5qLDmTe2W-E/edit#heading=h.88g5x35jxn13
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Hgo91vETy1ZBE2GkNRv9qdRWkPNFecvmn53Ak0KCqnA/edit#heading=h.b5jyx2u735e7
  - Nearing end of Phase 1 - identification of tasks, deliverables, priority, etc. Phase 2 will start soon. LASIR steering committee meets weekly to drive the process forward.
- Brad Spry: Starting with ETDs. https://ninercommons.uncc.edu

## Next Meeting
* Time: Thursday, February 28, 2019 - 3pm ET
* Chair: Bryan
