# Islandora IR Interest Group
## June 18, 2020, 2:00 - 3:00 PM EDT ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

## Agenda
- Administrivia
  - Note taker?
  - Next meeting chair? (5/21)
- What We Learned From the RDM Project (Rosie Le Faive)
- Tombstone discussion

## Attendees
- Bryan Brown :chicken:
- Melissa Anez
- Seth Shaw
- Stephen Perkins
- Amy Blau :pencil2:
- Chris Mayo
- Don Richards
- Alexander O’Neill

# Notes:
- Amy Blau volunteers as note taker (thanks Amy!)
- General check-in; anti-racist readings (How to be an anti-racist; Algorithms of oppression)
- Chair for next meeting? Still open, nominate yourself in IR chat
- Rosie: Islandora RDM project (UPEI)
  - Similar approach to IR work happening in Islandora
  - Will discuss features implemented
  - CANARIE call for Research Data Management (RDM) software
    - Implement FAIR principles
    - Contribute to National Data Services framework
    - Migrate UPEI and SFU data repository services to Islandora 8
    - Deliver “RDM Defaults” that other institutions can use / profile/distribution
  - https://islandora-rdm.researchspaces.ca/ (about project, not demo)
  - Features: custom content types (DMPs); PDF text extraction & OCR; external look ups (autocomplete from external vocabularies: subject headings, funder identifiers, etc); google-ready (sitemap and metatag); mint DOIs; ORCID (Oauth); store files on AWS (flysystem); user dashboard (for researchers and for curators); workflows for curation; transmission fixity checking; bagit; event logging; citation generation (for DataCite format); usage stats (Matomo and Matomo reports); data visualization (Javascript csv viewer); shared ownership (collaboration opportunities); GDPR compliant; Altmetrics; Large files* subject to PHP and server limits (upload widget service TUS that continues an interrupted upload -- but not for use with flysystem); a playbook
  - Not Islandora Defaults module; recreated in a different way
  - RDM suite with playbook had lots of dependencies, submodules; created feature package with defaults for submodules. Overlap both in Drupal and in Islandora which leads to confusion in configuration; still need Islandora Defaults. 
  - Security -- embargoes/unpublished access, requires many levels of authentication; needs to be baked-in early in development
  - Flexible Access Control -- no more XACML. Drupal has roles, workflow participants which gives specific users access to unpublished entities/nodes/media. “Researcher” role create dataset, edit dataset, needs to be limited so only can edit own dataset. Ownership of node for a person vs a role is tricky, needs checking. Many ways that content can be presented (revisions), also needs caution for individual vs role ownership.
  - Email notifications
  - Events log module -- viewable filter by user or type of action. De-ephemeralizes into that goes into Watchdog, can choose events for more permanent log
  - Matomo
  - Workflows -- need module “content moderation” cover nodes and media; lets you define states (published vs unpublished vs tombstoned), define transitions between states, define roles that can do each transition (rather than specific objects or people). Current version vs latest version (need revisions enabled) also drafts vs published versions. 
  - Lessons learned: a “finished” or “solved” problem doesn’t always work how you expect. Went into Drupal modules content. Important to test in the context of all relevant modules.
    - Workflows “submitted” state for review, with ability for research to pull it back into draft, want inability to edit while in “submitted” state, but there is still an edit tab.
  - Tools vs. design work (content modelling) vs. policy work (workflows, gdpr)
  - Drupal affordances not those of Github, Google Docs, Facebook, takes work to set up behavior like other platforms
  - Questions.
    - Bryan: where can we look at code? Rosie: RDM Module Suite https://github.com/roblib/islandora_rdm and documentation https://islandora-rdm.researchspaces.ca/documentation
    - Bryan: is everything there? Alexander: mostly
    - Stephen: Linked Data field was part of project? Alexander: generalized outcome from the project. https://www.drupal.org/project/linked_data_field
    - Bryan: with end of grant is the project over? maintenance/new features? Rosie: personally more hands-off. Eventually will migrate actual data repo over. Looking for testing and feedback but no timeline yet. Push general features back into main core for community use. Alexander: Research Data Canada meeting on grants, concern about ongoing funding for maintenance and upkeep of work developed under grants
    - Bryan: anything you’re most proud of or that worked especially well? Rosie: XML export; Alexander: paragraphs and structured data without taxonomy terms; collaboration with DMP questions in field title. Rosie: existing DMP tools as models, explanations work in field descriptions
  - Thanks for the presentation
- Bryan: Tombstone discussion will move to agenda for next IRIG meeting on July 16; also demo in next Islandora 8 call.

**Next Meeting:** Thursday, July 16 @ 2PM EDT    
**Chair:** None selected    
**Note Taker:** None selected
