# Islandora IR Interest Group
## October 15, 2020, 2:00 - 3:00 PM EDT ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

Chair: Bryan Brown
Note taker: Amy Blau

## Agenda
* Administrivia
   * Note taker?
   * Chair for next meeting?
* The IR admin experience in Islandora 8
   * Submission workflows
   * Managing access restrictions
   * What else?
   
## Attendees
* Amy Blau :pencil2:
* Don Ricards
* Bryan Brown :chicken:
* Melissa Anez
* Daniel Lamb

Notes:
* Amy Blau reporting 7.x embargo issues
  * XACML and embargoes don’t play nice together (known issue)
  * In 8, no XACML, all access restrictions work independently of each other, so access restrictions will overlap.
  * Multiple embargoes for an object that could overlap, restrict metadata, then restrict object, then restrict to campus, most restrictive currently active policy will hold.
  * Bryan hoping to do further testing with use cases from repository managers who are not already Drupal experts
  * Suggestion from Don: Embargo status stored in SQL somewhere, should have ability to show to administrator that something is embargoed, restricted to the public.
  * There is code to check for embargo data, blocks download button for embargoed object. Without additional development on scholar module, could maybe make a block that does that. 
  * Blocks doable by hand for sure, question how that would be set up automatically
  * Should be if/then logic to display blocks on embargoed content
  * Drupal 8 comes with conditions and blocks that let you do some of the work of display. You can set a block to display based on a condition of those embargoes. For every active embargo that keeps you from looking at a thing, show what those restrictions are and when they expire. Can check to set up yellow warning bar that says access to item is restricted.
    * https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5pUi8G8uxcU
  * Migration doesn’t currently account for embargoes. Bryan working on changing data model for I8 so that embargo functionality is delegated to submodules.
  * XACML restrictions won’t come over directly, but it should be possible to set things up with permissions by role along the same lines (taxonomy terms with roles).
  * Additional ways to look at access restrictions, “permissions by term” module in Drupal 8 is closer to XACML functionality by role and other context, less good for permissions that expire at a certain date. Content entities have expiration dates in a way that tags do not.
  * Multisite to keep all items from digital collections on one Fedora, but separate IR from digital collections
  * There are also ways to differentiate based on URL
  * Moving non-Islandora content into I8, can separate using content types and views.
  * Drupal 8 has multiple possibilities for achieving an outcome
* IR admin experience in I8
  * Embargo management & access restrictions
  * submission workflows
    * Google forms workarounds
    * Note: Drupal migrate framework also works with CSV or from Google spreadsheet
      * Migrate source CSV is the default, also one for Excel, and one for Google forms: Migrate sheets  https://www.drupal.org/project/migrate_google_sheets        
      * Also Workbench tool still in development
      * Can update in bulk in I8 (need to reindex in SOLR)
      * Demo of this for next IRIG call!
      * Can set up notifications in Drupal related to moving items from one collection to another that would be relevant to repo managers
      * Use webforms, can be as easy as setting up a Google form, but these result in webform submissions not nodes, and you have to write a custom webform handler to make them nodes. 
      * A webform to node module would be useful for Islandora community, could simplify submission process
      * Possibly different webforms could create the same kind of node
      * Would solve the “clone a form” problem
      * Content moderation might solve this problem differently by setting up different workflows and roles
      * Could have workflows tied to webform submissions, not a node until the very end and could have separate permissions, not be seen before it’s fully vetted

Next Meeting: November 19, 2020   
Chair: ???
