# Islandora IR Interest Group
## September 17, 2020, 2:00 - 3:00 PM EDT ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

Chair: Danny Lamb
Note taker: Melissa Anez

## Agenda
- Administrivia
  - Note taker?
  - Next meeting chair?
- Survey results: https://www.islandora.ca/content/latest-survey-results-are 
  - Which results for IR would you want to see in a sprint?

## Attendees:
- Danny Lamb :chicken:
- Melissa Anez :pencil2:
- Janice Banser
- Chris Mayo
- Chris Barnes
- Ben Ide
- Sarah Lippincott
- Sean Parke
- Willow Gillingham

## Notes:
- Survey results
  - 2/3 users, 1/3 developers or other technical folks
  - Mostly Islandora 7, but more Islandora 8 than we knew about out in the world
  - Documentation ranks very high (multiple top ten responses)
  - Accessibility ranks well, but will need a concerted effort to make sure improvements actually happen
  - IR specific highly rated results:
    - Embargoes
    - Google Scholar indexing
  - Looking for “stakeholders” for planning a sprint to work on IR features
    - Janice will run this up the flagpole
    - Chris M may be able to as well
  - Question: What is already being developed by others?
    - DGI’s IR solution, for instance
      - A smoother distribution of Islandora, targeted at IR needs
      - We still need to work out what can come over, but the will is there
      - They are using and contributing to Bryan’s Embargoes module
    - Question: Can’t run Ubuntu on prod, where to get help? 
      - Slack! Bug Danny. This also lures in others to help. 

Next Meeting: October 15, 2020   
Chair: ???
