# Islandora IR Interest Group
## April 16, 2020, 2:00 - 3:00 PM EDT ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

## Agenda
- Note taker?
- Next meeting chair? (5/21)
- Community pulse:
  - How are you personally doing?
  - The most important project: yourself.

## Attendees
- Brad Spry :pensive:

## Let's talk about "requirements"
- To Brad, archival and preservation is Job #1 for Islandora
  - Is your infrastructure really durable or are you building your house on shifting sands?
  - UI and usability: any pig can put on lipstick :pig::lips:

## What has your institution been doing?
- Coping

# Notes:
- Who wants to be the chair for the next meeting which will be May 21th?  Brad dares you to be your authentic self!

## Closing
- Please read and contribute to the [IRIG MVP document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14IAtsKVhDa4F9Bvjy9ajD4LeEz18HDNUBKu67z8_f6Q/edit#heading=h.x7lagv55l6b8)

**Next Meeting:** Thursday, May 21 @ 2PM EDT
**Chair:**
**Note Taker: **
