# Islandora IR Interest Group
## March 19, 2020, 2:00 - 3:00 PM EDT ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

## Agenda
- Note taker?
- Next meeting chair? (4/16)
- Bryan back from parental leave. Catch him up on:
  - What the group has been doing
  - What the community has been doing (7.x & 8.x)
  - What your institution has been doing
  - What you think the IRIG should be focused on
- [8.x Embargoes use case ideas](http://bit.ly/islandora8embargoes)
- [IRIG MVP doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14IAtsKVhDa4F9Bvjy9ajD4LeEz18HDNUBKu67z8_f6Q/edit#heading=h.x7lagv55l6b8)?

## Attendees
- Bryan Brown :chicken:
- Seth Shaw
- Eli Zoller
- Brad Spry
- Sarah Lippincott
- Willow Gillingham :pencil2:
- Chris Mayo
- Amanda Page
- Anali Perry
- Melissa Anez


# Notes:
- For the Islandora slack - including the #embargoes channel, If you send your email to manez@islandora.ca , she can invite you to islandora slack.
- Who wants to be the chair for the next meeting which will be April 16th?  Bryan emphasized that rotating chairs will help get others involved.

## What has your institution been doing?
  - Anali Perry (ASU) Helpful to have scholarly librarians involved.
  - Brad Spry (UNCC) IR tasks: public-facing analytics (obj downloads, views) using islandora_usage_stats, internal-facing stats using islandora_ga_reports (google analytics). Need to re-architect our Drupal multi-site to enable per-repo facet and search configs.  Still pursuing Disk Image Solution Pack enhancements to enable dataset submissions, browsing inside disk images, and requesting files therein.  DevOps: working on end-to-end workflow, git check-in all the way to dev/test/prod server instantiation using AWS CodePipeline and pure magic
  - Eli Zoller (ASU).  Worked on the “homework” document for feedback on the Embargo ideas document.
  - Chris Mayo.  Repository Librarian at Boston College.  Their IR is in Islandora 7.x and they have a deadline of getting off of 7.x.  Getting their recommendations drafted by June and plan to begin migration in the Fall 2020.  Bryan asked if these recommendations for an IR can be shared. (Note: Shared to Islandora Slack irig channel after meeting, document is [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1jGaw5gnZoNj1IBvmM8Z2XYUXeMtgO5dkTnmTD6s_B1Q/edit#gid=1296559560))
  - Amanda Page at Hamilton College (Clinton, NY). On Islandora 7.x and learning about 8.x and will be looking at information on 8.x.
  - Sarah Lippincott - working with two clients in 7.x to provide functionality.  LASIR is a set of modules. 
  - Seth Shaw - UNLV a lurker on the IR conversations and the overlap of the IR functionality with the born digital materials.
  - Willow Gillingham (ASU) -- gathering requirements and embargo use cases.

## What does an embargo mean to you?  What features?  
- From the 7.x world, the term “embargoes” is referenced in two modules: islandora_scholar to control data or object restrictions, and they could be indefinite or expire at a future date; “islandora_ip_embargo” - to restrict access to specific objects or collections to control access, yet it remains discoverable.  Since there were two modules for this, the staff had to use two separate interfaces for controlling the embargoes.  Goal is to have one module to control as much of this as possible (embargo dates, what is locked down vs. what is accessible, IP whitelist maintenance).
- Chris Mayo’s institution uses both modules - with not too many problems excepting for the CRON jobs sometimes, but their 7.x has been customized a lot. Their institutional mandate is that they can only migrate to a system that supports both embargo types.
- Brad Spry has never seen problems removing embargoes (via the automation in CRON).
- Amanda Page spoke to the “wish list” of what 8.x should have -- 
- Ability to have embargoes when they need them
- Ability to highly customize each
- IP proxy authentication by type… a type of embargo for IP groups 
- Anali Perry would like a feature to have a “12 month” option for the common embargo periods required by publishers.
- Seth - the content is either publicly accessible or restricted to staff, but conceives a field on the object / file that has embargo starting .. ending date.
- Sarah L. asked - do the various institutions notify people that various things will be embargoed?
- We don’t do that at ASU but it would be nice to have this automated to send a note to the contributor.  Although students may not have the same email address that they used when they submitted the ETD.  It is useful to be able to see on the publicly accessible page or on the back end when that item will be out of the embargo.  Brad feels that it should be automated and take the human layer out of the equation.  
- Google indexes the files and the website should return a “de-index me” and students or contributors expect that it wouldn’t be indexed.  Brad mentioned that some additional references could be in Proquest and it would also need to be removed.
- [Islandora 8 embargoes document](http://bit.ly/islandora8embargoes).  Please take a look at the document and add comments if needed.

## Closing
- The [IRIG MVP document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14IAtsKVhDa4F9Bvjy9ajD4LeEz18HDNUBKu67z8_f6Q/edit#heading=h.x7lagv55l6b8) is an old document and could use a fresh take since a lot has been already addressed / changed.
- We are not 100% sure if the next meeting is April 16th… is it the last Thursday of the month or 3rd or what?
  - Convener note: 3rd Thursday of the month, this has been formalized and slated on the [Islandora Community Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=96s6v709n719hapqtt9m8vj588@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/Halifax&pli=1)

**Next Meeting:** Thursday, April 16 @ 2PM EDT
**Chair:**
**Note Taker: **
