# Islandora IR Interest Group
## May 21, 2020, 2:00 - 3:00 PM EDT ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

## Agenda
- Administrivia
  - Note taker?
  - Next meeting chair? (5/21)
- [Islandora 8 IR Delta doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11Y7kGyVlrRW3uIqFPzMgQ2nj3gzB3U2FEO75X2n3bo8/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Replaces Islandora 8 IR MVP doc
  - MVP doc will still be available for historical purposes
  - Rough draft based on Bryan’s experience, in no way final
  - Fresh look at what work still needs to be done without the baggage of things I8 can already do
  - Delta = set of changes between one state and another
  - Very similar to ICG’s I7 LASIR project, but for I8 and led by the Islandora Foundation
  - Make comments! What features are missing from I8 AND the Delta doc that you need in order to consider migrating your IR to I8?
- SEO + Google Scholar
  - General
    - Notes from Monica at Google Scholar: The full setups for Google Scholar indexing are: 
      - (1) sitemap 
      - (2) citation_xx metatags 
      - (3) URL marker for distinguishing research content from other content (e.g. special collections, datasets)
  - Islandora 7
    - Wendy Shook on Middlebury’s work to fully optimize for Google Scholar indexing
      - Slides: https://repository.middlebury.edu/islandora/object/oas:77
  - Islandora 8
    - SEO already taken care of with default Drupal 8 modules, though they might still need a bit of configuration?
    - XML sitemaps
    - Meta tags
    - Robots.txt management
    - Google Scholar optimization still needed, and this would require some research + work

## Attendees
- Bryan Brown :chicken:
- Wendy Shook
- Sarah Lippincott
- Rebel Cummings-Sauls
- Janice Banser
- Chris Mayo
- Seth Shaw (late)
- Monica Westin (Google Scholar, mwestin@google.com) 
- Don Richards :pencil2:

# Notes:
- Discussed the CLAW/8 IR Doc
  - Long in the tooth
  - Lots of issues so we’re starting it fresh
  - Islandora 8 IR Delta https://docs.google.com/document/d/11Y7kGyVlrRW3uIqFPzMgQ2nj3gzB3U2FEO75X2n3bo8/edit
  - This doc is similar to an existing born digital project.
  - Please add your comments and suggestion to the doc
  - Looking at the doc, we’re focussing on the feature list first
  - To achieve google Scholar (GS) search engine optimization a couple of modules need to be chosen for sitemaps and base meta - tagging. There are several Drupal modules to choose from. We probably should fire meta-tags for all objects. Adding the GS - meta-tag module is also needed.
- SEO & Google Scholar (Monica Westin & Wendy Shook)
  - GS crawler uses a “browse-by-date” page unless a sitemap is provided.
  - GS can use DC metatags but this isn’t a complete solution for Google Analytics (GA)
  - Crawlers can scan (in rare cases) OCR  of PDFs
  - "Citation_..." metatags signals to the crawlers that the content should be index (not just relying on DC metatags). This is the ideal configuration.
- Wendy from Middlebury College presented on how their new IR worked with Monica directly to identify, test and implemented 3 main suggestions from Google Scholar crawler with a couple of additional tweaks to have their site indexed correctly.
  - Implemented the LASIR SEO Module 
  - Added a browse-by-date page
  - Created a URL Marker. Create a namespace specific to the Open Access Scholarship collection/IR. This was implemented -  -through utilizing a custom namespace. This isn’t a feasible solution for everyone. The Islandora Module Path Auto or aliasing all IR content to a subdirectory should work. (example.com/OAS/.../.../. )
- Important tips
  - Add a reference to the sitemap into your htaccess file
  - “Abstract Above the fold”, details/abstract context near the top of the page. Makes it easier for GS crawler to find the content.
  - Mixed content (datasets, special collections, GS material) without utilizing the URL marker is a bad idea. It was suggested to keep datasets separate even if they are part of a scholarly submission. Even having them on different websites is ideal. Mixing content can cause the crawler to get confused/stall.
  - Partner/Inclusion form. First need to signup or email Monica directly to flag GS crawler to start indexing
- Feel free to ask Monica GS questions mwestin@google.com https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=FUP25vYAAAAJ&hl=en

**Next Meeting:** Thursday, June 18 @ 2PM EDT    
**Chair:** None selected    
**Note Taker:** None selected
