# Islandora IR Interest Group
## April 16, 2020, 2:00 - 3:00 PM EDT ([Join Zoom](https://zoom.us/j/526356143))

## Agenda
- Administrivia
  - Note taker?
  - Next meeting chair? (5/21)
- Embargoes module testing
  - [Video demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5pUi8G8uxcU)
  - [Testing document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18XWb2dODoUuxopHTxGbGMCxOZILgKztWJUkKcePONYs/edit?usp=sharing)
- Islandora 8 IR MVP doc
  - IR Features for Islandora 8:
    - Support for various object types
    - PDFs (supported by default)
    - Binaries (supported by default)
    - Compounds (supported by default, but might take a bit of thinking about how to make it work for your use case)
  - Embargoes
    - In progress
  - Usage Stats
    - Decided on use of Matomo, but so far not much integration
    - [What would we like to see?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SUkWIm5CLbZTHeToYgVfHQqSTVHBg0-FKJdUNiHSzYM/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Customizable Submission Workflows
    - Drupal 8 has great support for this with Rules and Workflow modules
    - Demo of FSU’s Drupal 7 submission workflow 
    - [What would we like to see?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GTWCKwMsbd4g5n1QRt0sQ1EyH3PdsDH53J_HmoFh2Ig/edit?usp=sharing)
  - SEO + Google Scholar 
    - SEO already taken care of with default Drupal 8 modules, though they might still need a bit of configuration?
    - Google Scholar optimization still needed, and this would require some research + work
  - ID Importing
    - Completely untouched
    - [What would we like to see?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aiNlwjBz4KVllLDL-q3M0K9QbRKXrC7Na3ckIvIm-Bg/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Migration Utilities
    - https://github.com/Islandora-Devops/migrate_7x_claw 
    - Might need some additional features to support IR migrations, bringing over 7.x access restrictions like XACML policies, IP Embargoes, Scholar Embargoes, etc


## Attendees
- Bryan Brown :chicken:
- Seth Shaw
- Chris Mayo
- Melissa Anez
- Kun Lin
- Rachel White
- Janice Banswer :pencil2:


# Notes:
- Administrivia: New Zoom link for future meetings; now with 200% more security! https://zoom.us/j/98622189465
- Webinar coming up next week - [decoupling Islandora 8](https://zoom.us/meeting/register/tZQsfuuprz4sox_yChCWvsfnKhrKE-b2bQ) (DGI) 
- Embargoes module testing
  - If have d8 knowledge or worked with Islandora 8 testing machine take a look at the Testing document if you can
  - Join Slack embargo channel if interested
- Islandora 8 IR MVP doc
  - Lots of comments on what I8 can and cannot do. 
  - IR Features for Islandora 8:
  - Support for various object types
    - Compounds (supported by default, but might take a bit of thinking about how to make it work for your use case)
      - How you structure hierarchy will affect behavior of members, currently only one relationship >> member of
      - Can use context and different conditions
      - Any development in the works of “solution pack” like modules?
      - Not difficult, but not happening yet (maybe UPEI soon?)
      - (missed question from Kun Lin, anyone can add here… )
      - What default IR entities do we want to see? Thesis is big one
      - Think of content types in terms of metadata profile, maybe have single content type that represents more than one type and have different fields
    - Context module in D8 gives If / then logic.  So if this value, then what happens, (change theme or add block etc.. ) condition / reaction
    - Embargoes module has a condition if node has embargoes (can configure scope) can trigger different things.  Ex display block of embargo restrictions on node. 
  - Embargoes - major feature needed to migrate from I7 to I8.  See notes above re video/document/slack channel
  - Usage Stats
    - IRs need to demonstrate value to stakeholders. (views and dl)
    - Matomo - instead of Islandora usage stats, installed by default in I8
    - What would we like to see? 
    - What type of data would you like to see/share with stakeholders? 
    - Islandora usage stats was counting views incorrectly, (lower than actual)
    - GA stores data off site and privacy violation (GDPR) free tool, but drive google ads. 
    - Matomo open source alternative, but run server locally
    - Can customize, re: variables and widgets 
  - Customizable Submission Workflows
    - Drupal 8 has great support for this with Rules and Workflow modules, supports OTB. 
    - FSU has submission workflow in D7 
    - Bryan demo’d - create scholarship submission from end user perspective
    - Have rules set up to send alerts depending on event, example scholarship submission. 
    - [Github submission script](https://github.com/fsulib/fsulib_scripts/blob/master/submission2mods.drush)
    - Workflow at UNLV working on it with digital collections. Suggest talk to Eli, thinks they are using D8 module.  
    - [Brad wrote a script to check a  folder for new contents and create a new Islandora object](https://ninercommons.uncc.edu/islandora/object/work%3A75). 


**Next Meeting:** Thursday, May 21 @ 2PM EDT
**Chair:**
**Note Taker: **
